and after 25 days of Relentless Israeli
bombardment the first group of people
have been allowed out these are live
pictures of the border crossing where
people are starting to enter into Egypt
Palestinian officials say the number
allowed to cross is limited seriously
wounded Palestinians and foreign
Nationals are the ones who've been
authorized to enter Egypt let's speak
now to our correspondent inside Gaza
safat Al calut he's using an
international SIM card and so is able to
connect to us because all other
Communications in Gaza are down and have
been for the last few hours safwat first
of all let's talk about Rafa we've got a
lot of people there um a few hundred
perhaps crowded at the Crossing the gate
has opened they now look like they're
waiting to be processed before heading
into Egypt what information are you able
to give
us so as we were informed by The
Crossing out authorities that Egypt
officially announced officially the
opening for the first time of R Crossing
to allow the evacuation of
81 uh injured Palestinians from the war
war injuries who are in critical
condition adding to that a list of
hundreds of foreigners or Palestinian
with the dual citizenship uh but they
will received uh information by their
embassies through the cross uh to to go
through ra so it's not something the
random uh that everybody who with for
nationality can go now to RAF there is a
spe specific plan for the foreigners to
leave through the RAF Crossing uh we we
had a check a quick check on the on the
list of the foreigners that includes
Europeans Asians and other nationalities
as well but still everybody should go
based on orders from his Embassy that
coordinate with the Egyptian uh Egyptian
ti safwat do you know if anyone who's
not been informed is also trying to make
their way down to the Raffa Crossing to
get
out but from the first days of the war
hundreds of Palestinians they try to
reach Raa Crossing to uh to move outside
the Gaza the Gaza Strip since they were
under the Israeli fire so but then when
they realize that it needs a higher
level political level to open it
to open the crossing for them they just
went back home now there is no way that
anyone can cross without special
coordination although they carry
Palestinian or foreign nationality many
many people they are willing to leave
and to get this place to and another
place some people they don't mind even
to move to the siai to at least to find
a shelter from the Intensive Israeli
fire either airc or alter especially
when the situ sitation is getting even
worse in terms of Israeli tanks invading
the North and Gaza City okay safat alut
thanks very much for the moment for
joining us there from Gaza let's now go
to hanni Mahmud he joins us via
satellite link from Khan Yunis also
inside the Gaza Strip hannie you are
outside one of those hospitals which is
going to be releasing a small number of
Palestinian seriously injured
Palestinians to Egyptian ambulances talk
us through what you're hearing about the
process well uh so far the the process
is uh is is going as as it planned uh
with the with an expected delay
happening unfortunately uh for uh uh
hospitals in Gaza and the northern part
of Gaza where they were uh where they
were asked to uh uh to send uh seriously
wounded Palestinian now there's
something that we we should know about
this process only uh the reason there is
a limited number is because we have
lifethreatening
situations uh life lifethreatening
condition for the for those seriously
wounded Palestinian the other thing is
uh these are uh the individual who were
in the ICU units uh for the past two
weeks so the the priority is given to
these people the problem now that is
going to delay the process is due to
lack of of of of a safe corridor from
north northern part of Gaza and Gaza
City to the southern part uh the
ambulance vehicle have not moved yet uh
there is a demand for a safe route or a
safe passage uh for ambulance vehicle
from from Shiva hospital as well as
other uh Hospital Hospital in order the
Indonesian hospital just to make it
through uh to the southern part and then
ra High Crossing so we're expecting this
delay uh for the coming uh hours but so
far we know that the Egyptian ambulance
vehicle have arrived to the Egyptian
side of the RAF Crossing they are in
line and they are waiting for
Palestinians ambulance vehicle to reach
the gate and then a
transfer of winded
uh Palestinians will take place to the
Egyptian ambulance vehicle uh which will
take them to a field Hospital uh in shik
City uh to the southern of of rafah city
in the Egyptian side and this has been
uh it was established I believe in the
past two days a field hospital as a as a
receiving point and then from there uh
those wounded Palestinians will be taken
to designated hospitals either in the
within the vicinity or or to Cairo uh
there is also another update about
foreign Nationals and Palestinian with
the dual citizenship who are still at
the RAF Crossing have been trying for
the past two three weeks to get out of
Gaza with appeals and calls with the
government officials and and their
embassies uh but we learned from our
source and this has been confirmed uh
the entry uh the permission uh for for
the wounded uh for Palestinian or
seriously wounded and foreign Nationals
will happen at the same time
simultaneously it's like one package of
people leaving Gaza and that said uh
there won't be a two process going on
and and that's the latest of what we
heard and due to disabled communication
uh we we're not hearing more about
what's going to happen but we're
expecting a delay coming from the
hospitals in Gaza at shifa hospital and
the Indonesian
Hospital
okay hany uh We've also obviously had a
huge bombing uh yesterday in jabalia
refugee camp a number of strikes on that
camp which was a very densely populated
area in the very densely populated strip
what is the latest that you're hearing
about that and I appreciate that
Communications have been cut in Gaza
since the early hours of this morning so
it's difficult to get
updates yes
yes well the situations in jabalia
refugee camps are very cat catastrophic
uh due to the uh mass bombardment of an
entire residential block uh at least six
building of multiple story building were
bombed at the same time we're talking
about multiple air strikes happening at
one minute or within like very very
short short time uh without a warning
people were not given a warning to
evacuate uh and uh they were not even
given the time to run for their life so
it happened all all the sudden
unpredictable uh bombs fell on people
who were in that area we're talking
about at least 500 people who we inside
those buildings that's the minimum we
know it's a very crowded area and and
and those buildings came down right at
the same time initial reports talk about
at least 100 or a little over 100 people
were killed right at the spot however we
are expecting the number to rise as uh
these there are people under the rubbles
and with giving the intensity and and
the uh of the bombardment uh the entire
area H turned into a pile of ruins it
would be very difficult to dig in and
find uh people under the the rebels that
will take days of probably uh and with
the lack of equipment and Machinery uh
to do this the civil defense Personnel
will find it very difficult uh to find
to get people from under uh the reubel
but we have family member who said they
know they have relatives who are still
under these rubbles and it will be very
difficult in the coming days to see how
this will play itself out but it was
such a tragic a tragic event okay hany
Mahmud thanks very much for bringing us
the update there from Khan Unice